Run full observability check for radial grid without phasor measurement (#858)
PowerGridModel/power-grid-model: docs/user_manual/calculations.md

- Power flow through branches
- Deviation between measurement values and estimated state

In order to perform a state estimation, the system should be observable. If the system is not observable, the calculation will either raise a not observable error or 

> a sparse matrix error.

Reviewer: we most likely should update the default error message of the sparse matrix error (also check whether the python regex needs to be updated). it's not up to date anymore after this change.

Reviewer: the word `usually` may be misleading and/or confusing, though...

```
"Sparse matrix error, possibly singular matrix!\n"
If you get this error from state estimation, it usually means the system is not fully observable, i.e. not enough measurements.
```

Author: Changed error message.

> In short, meeting the requirement of observability indicates that the system is either an overdetermined system (when the number of measurements is larger than the number of
> ... For each node, there are two unknowns, `u` and `u_angle`. Due to the relative nature of `u_angle` (relevant only in systems with at least two nodes), in total the following conditions should be met:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In short, meeting the requirement of observability indicates that the system is either an overdetermined system (when the number of measurements is larger than the number of unknowns.
For each node, there are two unknowns, `u` and `u_angle`. Due to the relative nature of `u_angle` (relevant only in systems with at least two nodes), in total the following conditions should be met:
```

> unknowns) or a determined system (when the number of measurements is equal to the number of unknowns). For each node, there are two unknowns, `u` and `u_angle`, so the following conditions should be met:

Reviewer: i think we need to be explicit here.

```suggestion
unknowns) or an exactly determined system (when the number of measurements is equal to the number of unknowns). For each node, there are two unknowns, `u` and `u_angle`, so the following conditions should be met:
```

alternatively, something along the lines of `at least not an under-determined system`

Author: Please re-apply the suggestion. I close this one. The GitHub cannot apply this anymore.

> unknowns) or a determined system (when the number of measurements is equal to the number of unknowns). For each node, there are two unknowns, `u` and `u_angle`, so the following conditions should be met:

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest mention here already the important property of `u_angle` mentioned below.
```suggestion
... For each node, there are two unknowns, `u` and `u_angle`. Due to the relative nature of `u_angle` (relevant only in systems with at least two nodes), in total the following conditions should be met:
```

$$
    \begin{eqnarray}

>         n_{unknowns}    & = & 2 & \cdot & n_{nodes} - 1

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't it be:
```suggestion
        n_{measurements} >= n_{unknowns}    & = & 2 & \cdot & n_{nodes} - 1
```

Reviewer 2: Github changes ;)

    \end{eqnarray}
$$

Note that the phase angle is a relative value. So the number of unknowns is reduced by one.

> 

Reviewer 2: If mentioned above as suggested, this line can be removed.

##### Necessary observability condition

> Based on the requirements of observability mentioned above, user needs to satisfy  at least the following conditions for state estimation calculation in `power-grid-model`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Based on the requirements of observability mentioned above, users need to satisfy at least the following conditions for state estimation calculation in `power-grid-model`.
```

- Any sensor on a `Branch` for all branches: Parallel branches with either side of measurements count as one.
- All `Branch3` sensors.

##### Sufficient observability condition

> The condition check above only checks the necessary condition for observability. When the measurements are not independent enough, the system may still be unobservable even if the necessary condition is met.

Reviewer: i think in theory it is also possible that measurements are such that they coincidentally result in an underdetermined system of equations (extremely unlikely in real life, but potentially may occur for generated data). or do the matrix equation by construction guarantee that is never the case?

Author: What do you mean here? If the measurements result in an underdetermined system of equations, they are not independent enough.

Reviewer: ohhh ok sorry i mis-read this

It is rather complicated to do a full sufficient and necessary observability check in generic cases. However, `power-grid-model` performs the sufficient condition check when the following conditions are met:

1. The system is a radial network.
2. The system does not have voltage phasor measurements.

> In this case, the validation of the independent measurements is rather straightforward. If the system is not observable, the calculation will raise a not observable error instead of sparse matrix error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, the validation of the independent measurements is rather straightforward. If the system is not observable, the calculation will raise a `NotObservableError` instead of `SparseMatrixError`.
```
